to the Middle East now and Lebanon where
missile strikes in both directions
across its Southern border with Israel
have been ongoing since October the
destruction insecurity and fear of an
allout War have pushed many to leave
their homes in those areas DW's Muhammad
sha
reports haidar is almost 60 years old
yet before he moved here he'd only been
to Beirut once or
twice he comes from BEDA a small town in
southern Lebanon close to the border
with Israel this is what it looks like
now daily crossb shelling between
hasbullah and Israeli Army since October
8th has destroyed much including
haidar's shop and
home he came here to Southern Beirut 7
months ago and set up a grocery store he
named it after his
hometown I had my own Butchery and
grocery store in BEDA and my brother
owned a supermarket we lost everything
it's all destroyed our shops and our
houses thank God I'm working again but
it doesn't feel the same being away from
my
hometown I'm happy that I can still see
and meet people from my town and the
nearby border towns who come to my
shop this brings me some
Joy haar's new Beirut neighborhood is
home to many others who fled the
southern towns it's thought around
100,000 refugees have fled their homes
near the border with Israel many here
have become haar's loyal
customers the man lost everything his
house his store everything and yet he is
not greedy what you get Elsewhere for
50,000 you get it here for 20 or
25,000 he sympathizes with others who
have been through trouble times he feels
for them and he tries to reimburse
them I come here every day to buy fruit
and vegetables it's always fresh I like
him because he's always
smiling outside the grocery store people
are anticipating the latest updates from
the Frontline
these people are celebrating Ashura the
most sacred date in the Shia Muslim
calendar it marks the death of Imam
Hussein grandson of the Prophet Muhammad
this Gathering is also used by hasah to
deliver political
messages this is hassanah Secretary
General of hasah the party designated by
many countries as a terrorist
organization if your tanks invade
Lebanon and Southern Lebanon you will
not only suffer from the lack of Tanks
but you will lose all your
tanks his message we are ready for an
allout War even though we don't want it
the growing tension and destruction On
the Border would point to such a
development one that would push many
more Lebanese people to become refugees
in their own
country uh let's get more from G
Steinberg he's the Middle East expert at
the German Institute for international
in security Affairs he joins us from
Berlin gido we've just heard in that
report that hasbalah is ready for a
fullscale war from your perspective is
it well uh I think that hisbah is trying
to deter the Israelis because there has
been a debate in Israel going on since
the 8th of October when hisbah started
attacking the Israeli North uh whether
Israel shouldn't start a preventive War
War and the the
main um the main personality arguing for
such a war has always been the defense
minister yuf Galant uh and I believe
that hisbah is extremely worried about
recent news that this uh debate has been
started a new in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem
uh it tries to tell the Israelis U that
hisbah is prepared for this
confrontation but I think that it fears
this confrontation what's Hezbollah
trying to achieve with continuous
attacks on
Israel well it's trying to show
solidarity with Hamas in Gaza but at the
same time it tries uh not to escalate
the situation uh and that's mainly due
to the fact that hisbah is not an
independent actor it depends heavily uh
on Iran it's in fact an Iranian proxy
force and Iran
andah don't want a big war right now
simply because Iran doesn't believe that
it's ready for a war with Israel I
personally believe believe that this
calculation might change someday uh when
Iran is nuclear U has acquired a nuclear
C capability but for the time being
these two actors don't want a big war
simply because they believe that they
can't win it eyes around the world have
been watching weily for months now is
there any reason to believe Israel will
in fact invade
Lebanon oh yes yes uh there there has
been a debate even before the Gaza War
even because before the events of the
seventh of October
2023 um and those who argue for a war
with hisbah argue uh that Israel can't
accept uh the very fact that there is a
very strong terrorist organization on
its northern border threatening uh the
Israeli North uh and this argument has
gained um has gained power after the 8th
of October when hisbah started attacking
um attacking villages and attacking
cities in the north with the result that
between 60 and 990,000 Israelis had to
evacuate this uh this area and many
argue that this is not a sustainable
situation if there is no diplomatic
solution if there is no hisbah
withdrawal from the Israeli border many
Israeli pundits believe that such a war
is in
inevitable as you surely know Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is
visiting the US and on his agenda among
other things is gathering support for
fighting Hezbollah and other Iran back
groups in the region is that something
the US
supports no uh the the current Biden
Administration has tried to restrain
Israel and it has tried to Res restrain
Israel since October uh
2023 simply because the Biden
Administration fears that an escalation
between hisbah and Israel might lead to
an escalation uh between Iran uh and is
Isel and a war a wider War uh in the
region uh it might be that Benyamin
Netanyahu is now uh discussing will now
discuss these uh these issue with the
Biden Administration but I don't believe
that uh that the letter will change its
view uh in order to avoid this War uh
the Biden Administration has tried to
deter hisbah it has tried to convince
hisbah uh to seize its attacks to no
avail and at the same time it has sent
an a diplomatic Envoy uh to discuss this
problem and discuss a withdrawal of
hisbah in southern Lebanon um
indirectly uh in
beay our thanks to GTO Steinberg the
Middle East expert at the German
Institute for international and security
Affairs in Berlin thank you
sir thank you